for our next neuroscience topic I want
to tell you guys about something called
the triumph circuit now the triumph
circuit isn't quite like the dopamine
circuit or some of the emotional
circuits we talk about in the sense that
those circuits are very easily mapped
onto the brain like there's a part of
your brain called the nucleus accumbens
accumbens that secretes dopamine and
gives you a sense of pleasure there's a
part of your brain called the amygdala
that anytime you feel fear or negative
emotion is active the triumph circuit is
a little bit different it's something
that doesn't localize to one part of the
brain but it's just a general pattern of
kind of psychology and cognition that is
important to human beings
in short the triumph circuit is the part
of our brain that makes us feel good
when we overcome a challenge and to
start to understand the triumph circuit
we have to track back to why human
beings have this in the first place
and if you stop and think about what
makes a game so addictive there's a
sense of a challenge followed by an
achievement like if you're playing a
game like Dark Souls and you've died six
times on a boss and then you beat that
boss afterward you feel amazing it gives
you this rush so where does that rush
come from why do human beings relish
something that is a challenge followed
by a success where does that feeling of
triumph come from and what we need to do
is actually track back and look at kind
of evolutionary biology to understand
where the triumph circuit comes from so
like millions of years ago when human
beings were hunter-gatherers there would
be like a range that they would sort of
hunt and forage in and you would sort of
have a like a territory and people would
go out and they'd kind of like look for
berries or look for animals and
sometimes you know that area was kind of
it was safe it was a little bit
conservative people knew where the
Predators were they knew where like the
berry bushes were and so it was kind of
like a safe place to be and then what
happened is some human beings
had the desire to kind of go beyond that
safe place and to venture a little bit
into dangerous parts of the jungle and
for the ones who ventured into the
dangerous parts there's a greater chance
that they would find food because it
hasn't been picked clean because it's
not the safe part and so the ones that
ventured out past the safe zone and
expose themselves to more predators had
a greater chance of finding more food
and so when they ventured into the
dangerous territory everyone was kind of
scared right they're like oh my god
don't go into the forbidden area of the
jungle because you may be eaten by a
tiger but when they came back with more
food they were awarded because they went
into the dangerous territory and
succeeded in bringing something back so
if you look at evolutionary biology
there's a strong story about venturing
into the unknown and finding something
overcoming some kind of challenge and
then bringing it back to society and if
you look at how that's shaped social
psychology we as human beings value
people who overcome odds why is it that
society cares that someone survived
cancer like why is that a thing like why
do we value that it's because cancer
survivors speak to that triumph circuit
there's something about the danger of
cancer and the the capability that
cancer is absolutely going to destroy
you that when you survive it it becomes
something that is universally esteemed
if you get if you face any kind of
challenge like let's say that you know
you're you're in a war zone and you have
to like travel through a war zone and
then you make it out alive you're gonna
feel a great sense of exhilaration and
you're gonna feel a sense of triumph so
human beings have a very fundamental
circuit in their brain that correlates
the amount of challenge they face with
the amount of triumph that they feel and
if you think about video games video
games have done a very good job at
striking that balance let's think a
little bit about games that are too easy
why aren't they fun it's because they're
too easy and other games that aren't fun
or games that are too
hard right like if you just think about
it like if there's a game and you turn
on god mode and then you run through the
game it's not nearly as fun as if you
play it normally so there's something
about games that they game designers
work really hard to strike this balance
of making it challenging enough to feel
like you accomplished something when you
overcome that challenge but in order to
get that feeling of accomplishment you
have to have a feeling of a challenge
and what that's doing is accessing the
triumph circuit of our brain the really
dangerous thing about the triumph
circuit and video games is that the
triumph circuit was originally designed
to help human beings achieve something
in life so if you think about who do we
respect we respect people like doctors
and lawyers because the path that
they've walked tends to be viewed as
harder like studying really hard for
seven years to becoming a neurosurgeon
is something that we respect because
it's hard to do we respect people who do
hard things and that's been kind of a
good thing from an evolutionary
perspective because when we face a
challenge and we overcome it that yields
good rewards I mean that's correlated
with actual improvement in your personal
life if we think about you know jobs and
adversity society compensates doctors
higher and neurosurgeons at a high rate
because what they do is very difficult
so we fundamentally respect people who
can overcome challenges what happens in
a video game is that they sort of
artificially hijack that triumph circuit
and so they give gamers the feeling of
achieving something are being triumphant
by activating that circuitry in your
brain the problem is that that
achievement doesn't actually come with a
real-world reward and so what happens is
that that triumph circuit for nor most
people causes them to strive to achieve
something and improve their lives but
when that that same part of your brain
when the triumph circuit gets activated
by the game then suddenly you get the
same neurological benefit but without
any of the real-world consequences and
that's what makes it so incredibly
dangerous and so one of the things you
have to understand is again
is when you achieve something in the
game the degree of achievement that you
feel from a neurologic perspective can
be really similar to what you feel when
you achieve something in the real world
because the game is just accessing that
circuitry and so you have to be careful
because when you look at yourself and
you look at you know why do I play the
game and what do I like about playing
this game how does the game make me feel
recognize that part of that is a feeling
of triumph and once you understand that
that feeling of triumph is there you
will start to be a little bit better at
navigating some of the challenges that
you face in the real world but at the
end of the day I think the main point of
explaining the triumph circuit is just
to equip you guys with knowledge take a
look at yourself and ask yourself why do
I play this game when is it that I feel
the best in the game what's so exciting
about downing a raid boss in World of
Warcraft or ff14 like why does that feel
so good to us it's because it's
hijacking this thing called the triumph
circuit and you feel like you've really
accomplished something
gamers feel like they've really done
something worthwhile when they down this
raid boss but the really dangerous thing
about that is that that raid boss was
designed to be defeated games are
designed to be beaten and what game
designers do is they want to make it
hard and make it feel like an
achievement but if you really stop and
look at it all games are designed to be
beaten by most people otherwise they
wouldn't sell and so it's all this
artificial hijacking of this circuitry
which can be really dangerous because
that's the same circuitry that causes us
to actually work really hard in life and
if we're activating it without working
hard then it becomes really hard to
activate it by working hard because why
would your brain want to work hard and
activate it when you can just get the
shortcut and activate it through a game
and so understand that when you play the
game it's actually tampering with your
brain in a way that is especially
challenging to deal with the reason that
you can't stop gaming is not because
you're lazy or not because you don't
have willpower it's because there are
fundamental parts of your brain that
drive behavior that are driving your
gaming because the triumph circuit
drives your behavior and so you have
this fundamental piece of yourself that
is forcing you to gain and you have to
understand that about yourself you
really have to understand that piece of
yourself if you want to have any chance
of getting control of your gaming